# Mod7-Pewlett-Hackard-Challenge
SQL, pgAdmin
## Intro ##
Pewlett-Hackard is a colossal company with over almost half a million current employees. As a testiment to our employee-centric culture our trunover is relatively low, but at this scale HR at Paelett-Hackard is a momental challenge in normal times; right now, though, we're facing an acute challenge. In the next five years an average of over 6,600 employees will become eligible for retirement anually. 33,000 employees. This will represent 7% of our workforce. We are honored that so many have made our company their home for so long and celebrate the service of our retiring employees, but we must recognize the loss human capital this represents. To evealuate and mitigate this vacency problem we have conducted analysis at the department and position levels and are proposing a innovative program to smooth the transition going forward.
## Number of Retiring Titles ##
Not every departnment or speciality is effected equally. The 'retiring_titles' table (in the 'Data' folder) breaks down out-bound staff by their current position. The work to derive these totals is detailed in the 'challenge_queries' file. Our team recomends, in particular, drives to fill 'Senior Engineer' and 'Senior Staff' positions
## Mentorship Program ##
To adress the drop in experence it is our hope to improve effenciy of bringing incomming staff up to speed through mentorships. Eligible outbound staff identified in the 'mentorship' table (found in the 'Data' folder) will be asked to mentor incomming staff to uphold our high standards of exellence in left-seat and right-seat roles as they transition in and as the retirees transition out. In normal times this process is done within the departnments, over time, through osmosis. By formalizing this process and coordinating centrally we hope to improve our efficency even more!
